The President:
Hi, everybody.
Yesterday, we learned
that in 2013,
our businesses created
2.2 million new jobs -
including 87,000 last month.
Our unemployment rate
is the lowest it has been
since October 2008.
And across our broader economy,
there are signs of progress.
Our manufacturing and housing
sectors are rebounding.
Our energy, technology,
and auto sectors are booming.
Thanks in part to the reforms
in the Affordable Care Act,
health care costs now eat up
less of our economy -
over the past four years,
costs have grown at
the slowest rate on record.
And since I took office,
we've cut our deficits
by more than half.
Thanks to the
hard work and sacrifice
of the American people,
our economy is
growing stronger.
But we know we've got
more work to do together.
Our success as a country depends
on more than the success
of our broader economy -
it depends on the success
of the American people.
It depends on your
ability to make ends meet,
provide for your families,
and, with a little hard work,
feel like you can get ahead.
So we've got to keep
our economy growing,
and make sure more Americans
have the opportunity
to share in that growth.
We've got to keep creating
jobs that offer new opportunity,
and make sure those jobs offer
the wages and benefits
that let you rebuild
some security.
We've got more kids to educate,
and families to get covered
with health insurance,
and an immigration
system to fix.
And we've got to make sure this
recovery leaves no one behind.
This will be a year of action.
I'll keep doing everything
I can to create new jobs
and new opportunities
for American families -
with Congress, on my own,
and with everyone willing
to play their part.
And that action should begin by
extending unemployment insurance
for Americans who were
laid off in the recession
through no fault of their own.
This vital economic
lifeline helps people
support their families
while they look for a new job.
And it demands responsibility
in return by requiring
that they prove they're
actively looking for work.
But before the holidays,
Republicans in Congress
just let that lifeline expire
for 1.3 million Americans.
And if this doesn't get fixed,
it will actually hurt
about 14 million Americans
over the course of this year.
Earlier this week,
Democrats and
Republicans in the Senate
took the first steps
toward making this right.
But Congress needs to
finish the job right away.
More than one million
Americans across the country
will feel a little
hope right away.
Working folks are looking
for the kind of stable,
secure jobs that went overseas
in the past couple decades.
So next week, I'll join
companies and colleges
and take action to boost
the high-tech manufacturing
that attracts the
kind of good new jobs
a growing middle
class requires.
Business owners are
ready to play their part
and hire more workers.
So next week, I'll be joined by
college presidents as we lay out
specific steps we can take
to help more workers
earn the skills they need
for today's new jobs.
Later this month I'll host CEOs
at the White House
to announce commitments
we're making
to put more of the long-term
unemployed back to work.
And at the end of the month,
in my State
of the Union Address,
I will mobilize the country
around the national mission
of making sure our economy offers
everyone who works hard
a fair shot at
opportunity and success.
As Americans,
that's what we should expect.
And after everything
you've done to recover
and rebuild from crisis
these past five years -
after all your
hard work and sacrifice -
that's what you deserve.
Thanks,
and have a great weekend.